Response to Iranian attacks | Prime Minister of Australia
 Skip to main content
 Response to Iranian attacks
 Media statement
 Tuesday 26 August 2025
 The Hon Anthony Albanese MP
 Prime Minister of Australia
 Senator the Hon Penny Wong
 Minister for Foreign Affairs
 The Hon Tony Burke MP
 Minister for Home Affairs
 Minister for Cyber Security
 Listen
 Since the terrible events of October 7, 2023 we have witnessed a number of appalling antisemitic attacks against Australia’s Jewish community.
The Albanese Government asked ASIO and the Australian Federal Police to investigate these incidents as a priority because they have no place in Australia.
Enough credible intelligence has now been gathered to reach the deeply disturbing conclusion that the Iranian Government has directed at least two of these attacks.
Iran has sought to disguise its involvement but ASIO assesses it was behind the attacks on:
Lewis’ Continental Kitchen in Sydney on October 20 last year; and
The Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne on December 6 last year
ASIO assesses it is likely Iran directed further attacks as well.
These were extraordinary and dangerous acts of aggression orchestrated by a foreign nation on Australian soil. This is an attack on our society, aimed at creating fear, stoking internal divisions and eroding social cohesion.
These attacks on our society are totally unacceptable and the Australian Government is taking strong and decisive action in response:
We have informed the Iranian ambassador to Australia he and three additional Iranian diplomats will be expelled.
We have suspended operations at our embassy in Tehran and all our diplomats are now safe in a third country.
The Government will legislate so we can list Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps – the IRGC - as a terrorist organisation.
The Australian people want the killing and hatred to stop, and they don’t want the conflict in the Middle East brought here.
Iran has sought to do just that. They have sought to harm and terrify Jewish Australians, and to sow hatred and division in our community.
The actions of the Albanese Government send a clear message that we stand against antisemitism and violence.
It also sends a message to those who try to interfere in our country: your aggression will not be tolerated.
 Share
