Establishment of Royal Commission on Antisemitism and Social Cohesion | Prime Minister of Australia
 Skip to main content
 Establishment of Royal Commission on Antisemitism and Social Cohesion
 Media release
 Thursday 8 January 2026
 The Hon Anthony Albanese MP
 Prime Minister of Australia
 The Hon Tony Burke MP
 Minister for Home Affairs
 Minister for Immigration & Citizenship
 The Hon Michelle Rowland MP
 Attorney-General
 Listen
 The Albanese Labor Government will establish a Royal Commission on Antisemitism and Social Cohesion in response to the Bondi terrorist attack.
The Government has asked Former High Court Justice the Hon Virginia Bell AC to serve as Commissioner.
Ms Bell has the deep experience and expertise to conduct her inquiry in such a way that meaningfully examines the impact of antisemitism on the daily life of Jewish Australians – and works to promote social cohesion.
The Government has asked Commissioner Bell to report before the end of the year, and to ensure this inquiry does not prejudice any future criminal proceedings.
The Royal Commission will cover four key areas, as set out in the Letters Patent.
Tackling antisemitism by investigating the nature and prevalence of antisemitism in institutions and society, and its key drivers in Australia, including ideologically and religiously motivated extremism and radicalisation.
Making recommendations that will assist law enforcement, border control, immigration and security agencies to tackle antisemitism, including through improvements to guidance and training within law enforcement, border control, immigration, and security agencies to respond to antisemitic conduct.
Examining the circumstances surrounding the antisemitic Bondi terrorist attack on 14 December 2025.
Making any other recommendations arising out of the inquiry for strengthening social cohesion in Australia and countering the spread of ideologically and religiously motivated extremism in Australia.
To ensure this is a truly national Royal Commission, all States and Territories will be asked to join the Commission.
Dennis Richardson’s Independent Commonwealth Review into Australia’s federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies will become part of the Commission and he will support its work, with delivery of an Interim Report by the Commission in April.
The Government’s focus in the aftermath of the antisemitic Bondi terrorist attack has been on urgent and immediate action.
That’s why we have:
Adopted recommendations from the Special Envoy to Combat Antisemitism, Jillian Segal.
Brought together National Cabinet to fast-track tougher gun laws.
Delivered new resources to our law enforcement agencies to help prevent further attacks.
Established the Richardson Review – to quickly identify any gaps in the work of the national security bodies.
When Parliament returns the Government will also introduce new laws to criminalise hate speech and hate preachers, as well as deliver tougher gun laws.
A Royal Commission is not the beginning or the end of what Australia must do to eradicate antisemitism, protect ourselves from terrorism or strengthen our social cohesion.
That is an ongoing national effort, for all of us.
Because an attack on Jewish Australians, is an attack on all Australians.
 Share
