Special envoy to combat Antisemitism | Prime Minister of Australia
 Skip to main content
 Special envoy to combat Antisemitism
 Media release
 Tuesday 9 July 2024
 The Hon Anthony Albanese MP
 Prime Minister of Australia
 The Hon Andrew Giles MP
 Minister for Immigration, Citizenship and Multicultural Affairs
 Listen
 The Albanese Government today announces the appointment of Ms Jillian Segal AO as Special Envoy to Combat Antisemitism in Australia, as part of our ongoing efforts to preserve social cohesion in Australia.
The conflict in the Middle East has deeply affected communities across Australia.
The appointment of the Special Envoy is a critical step in the Government’s efforts to ensure all Australians feel safe and included.
Every Australian, no matter their race or religion, should be able to feel safe and at home in any community, without prejudice or discrimination.
The Australian Government continues to press for a ceasefire, for civilians to be protected, humanitarian aid to reach Gazans in desperate need, and for all hostages to be released.
We have advocated for a two-state solution on the world stage, at the United Nations.
As Special Envoy, Ms Segal AO will listen to and engage with Jewish Australians, the wider Australian community, religious discrimination experts and all levels of government on the most effective way to combat Antisemitism.
Ms Segal will attend the World Jewish Congress in Argentina next week in her role as Special Envoy, alongside other Special Envoys to combat Antisemitism from around the world.
Ms Segal’s extensive career spans decades in both the public and private sector, including as former President of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry and as Chair of the Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce. Her leadership and lived experience will prove invaluable to the Government’s efforts to build a cohesive society, where all Jewish Australians feel safe and can thrive.
Ms Segal has been appointed for a three-year term and will report directly to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Immigration, Citizenship and Multicultural Affairs.
The appointment of Ms Segal as Special Envoy will bolster the Government’s almost $90 million investment in initiatives to tackle the ongoing impacts of the Hamas-Israel conflict in Australia, demonstrating the Government’s firm commitment to listening to and working with affected communities.
The Federal Government will also appoint a Special Envoy for Islamophobia and the details of that appointment will be announced shortly.
Quotes attributable to Prime Minister Anthony Albanese
“There is no place for violence or hatred of any kind in Australia.
“The appointment of Jillian Segal AO is a critical step in easing the tensions that we see playing out here at home, as a result of the devastating conflict in the Middle East.
“Australians are deeply concerned about this conflict, and many are hurting. In times like this, Australians must come together, not be torn apart.
“We have built our nation’s social cohesion together over generations, and this is why we all must work together to uphold, defend and preserve it.”
Quotes attributable to Minister for Immigration, Citizenship and Multicultural Affairs Andrew Giles
“The Albanese Government has zero tolerance for prejudice or hatred of any kind.
“Antisemitic behaviour in Australia, including its recent rise, is unacceptable and the appointment of Ms Segal demonstrates our Government’s firm commitment to tackling Antisemitism head-on.
“Ms Segal’s extensive leadership experience, and decades of advocacy for Jewish Australians will be invaluable as she works with Government to engage with community and take decisive steps to combat Antisemitic behaviour.”
Quotes attributable to Special Envoy to Combat Antisemitism Ms Jillian Segal AO
“Combating Antisemitism in Australia has never been more important than it is today.
“The Jewish community in Australia is experiencing valid feelings of fear in the face of increasing Antisemitism.
“Jewish Australians want to feel free to live their day-to-day lives, and also want to feel safe to practice and express their religion without fear. They also want to be able to contribute as they have previously to the vibrant multicultural society that we value in Australia.
“I look forward to working with stakeholders across the community to deliver a safer future for my community, and to strengthen social cohesion and drive a strong, informed and deliberate approach to combating Antisemitism.”
 Share
