Special envoy to combat Islamophobia | Prime Minister of Australia
 Skip to main content
 Special envoy to combat Islamophobia
 Media release
 Monday 30 September 2024
 The Hon Anthony Albanese MP
 Prime Minister of Australia
 The Hon Tony Burke MP
 Minister for Home Affairs
 Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs
 Minister for Cyber Security
 Minister for the Arts
 Leader of the House
 Listen
 The Albanese Government today announces the appointment of Aftab Malik as Special Envoy to Combat Islamophobia in Australia.
Every Australian, whatever their race or religion, should be able to feel safe and at home in any community, without prejudice or discrimination.
The ongoing conflict in the Middle East continues to deeply affect communities across Australia.
The appointment of Mr Malik is a crucial part of the Government’s strategy to ensure all Australians feel safe and included, and follows extensive consultation with the community.
The Special Envoy will listen to and engage with members of the Muslim community, religious discrimination experts and all levels of government on the most effective ways to combat Islamophobia.
Mr Malik is recognised as a global expert on Muslim affairs by the UN Alliance of Civilisations, and has spent almost a decade working in the New South Wales Premier’s Department, promoting social cohesion and countering hate and extremism.
Today’s announcement follows the appointment of Ms Jillian Segal AO as the Special Envoy to Combat Antisemitism.
Mr Malik has been appointed for a three-year term, starting on the 14th of October, and will report directly to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Home Affairs, Immigration and Multiculturalism, and Cyber Security.
The appointment of Mr Malik will bolster the Government’s $90 million investment in initiatives to tackle the ongoing impacts of the Hamas-Israel conflict in Australia, demonstrating the Government’s firm commitment to listening to and working with affected communities.
Quotes attributable to Minister for Home Affairs, Immigration and Multicultural Affairs and Cyber Security Tony Burke
“Bigotry is always wrong. You should be able to live safely and freely in Australia, regardless of who you are or what you believe.”
Quotes attributable to Special Envoy to Combat Islamophobia Aftab Malik
“Promoting social cohesion and fighting against hate in Australia is more important today than it’s ever been.
“I look forward to working with Muslim leaders and the broader community to promote peace, understanding and inclusivity.”
 Share
