SOURCE URL: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2024-04-03/albanese-talks-netanyahu-about-zomi-frankcom-death/103661096
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-10 23:36 AEDT (HTTP 200)
Saved as plain text extracted from the page HTML; wording unaltered. Header lines added by the verifier.
================================================================================
Anthony Albanese tells Israeli prime minister Australians outraged over Zomi Frankcom's death - ABC News

Skip to main content
Skip to news navigation, settings and search

Explore the ABC

Loading

ABC News
News Home

Anthony Albanese tells Israeli prime minister Australians outraged over Zomi Frankcom's death

ShareShare article

Anthony Albanese tells Israeli prime minister Australians outraged over Zomi Frankcom's death

By political reporter Georgia Roberts

Topic:Federal Government

Posted Wed 3 Apr 2024 at 9:31amWed 3 Apr 2024 at 9:31amWed 3 Apr 2024 at 9:31am, updated Wed 3 Apr 2024 at 4:55pmWed 3 Apr 2024 at 4:55pmWed 3 Apr 2024 at 4:55pm

Loading...

abc.net.au/news/albanese-talks-netanyahu-about-zomi-frankcom-death/103661096

Link copied

ShareShare article

In short: Anthony Albanese has told Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu following an Israeli air strike that killed seven, including Australian aid worker Zomi Frankcom.

Mr Albanese conveyed to Mr Netanyahu that Australians were outraged by the death of Ms Frankcom.

What's next: The Israeli government says it will look into how the deaths occurred. 

Prime Minister Anthony Albanese says he has spoken with the Israeli prime minister following an Israeli air strike that killed an Australian aid worker in central Gaza. 

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu admitted it was an Israel Defense Forces (IDF) air strike that killed Australian aid worker Lalzawmi "Zomi" Frankcom and six other people in Gaza.

Mr Albanese said he conveyed to Mr Netanyahu in "very clear terms" that Australians were outraged by the tragedy of Ms Frankcom's death.

He said that during the phone call Mr Netanyahu accepted responsibility for the strike on behalf of the IDF. 

"This happens in wartime. We are thoroughly looking into it, are in contact with the governments [of the foreigners among the dead] and will do everything to ensure it does not happen again," Mr Netanyahu said in a video statement.

The Israeli prime minister said his country's forces had carried out the "unintended strike" on "innocent people in the Gaza Strip".

Mr Albanese would not respond to Mr Netanyahu's comments but said Australians would look at the death of Ms Frankcom and be deeply concerned that someone could lose their life while providing aid. 

"These people are heroes," the Australian prime minister said of aid workers. 

The charity organisation that Ms Frankcom was working for, World Central Kitchen (WCK), has suspended its delivery of vital aid to Palestinians on the brink of starvation following the Israeli strike.

WCK said the team was travelling in a three-car convoy that included two armoured vehicles, and its movements had been coordinated with the Israeli army before it was hit. 

Ms Frankcom, as well as Palestinians and citizens of the UK, Poland and a dual US-Canadian national, died in the blasts on Monday night, local time.

Zomi Frankcom's family says she was a "kind, selfless and outstanding human being". (Supplied: Facebook)

The prime minister said he expressed clearly that Australia wanted a "full and proper explanation" for how the deaths occurred.

"The first step is the acceptance of responsibility and that has occurred," Mr Albanese said. 

"But we want a very fast, immediate, clear and transparent process to occur." 

'Outrage of the nation': Penny Wong

Foreign Minister Penny Wong said she had spoken to her Israeli counterpart and "expressed the outrage of the nation".

"I said the death of any aid worker is outrageous and unacceptable," Senator Wong said. 

"We expect full accountability for these deaths, and his intention was to ensure that there was a thorough investigation."

Senator Wong responded to Mr Netanyahu's comments regarding the deaths of the aid workers being what "happens in wartime".

"Well, international humanitarian law applies to Israel and that law protects civilians, and that law protects aid workers," she said.

"I don't think this can be dismissed in any way, and we expect full accountability.

"I would say to you that the expectation of the Australian government is full accountability for these deaths. 

"Zomi Frankcom and her colleagues and other aid workers go into a conflict zone in order to try and alleviate the suffering, the humanitarian catastrophe which is occurring in Gaza, and they ought to have been protected."

Loading Twitter content

When asked if Australia would consider sanctions against Israel, Senator Wong said the government did not "speculate on sanctions".

"We maintain diplomatic relationships with many countries and we will continue to do so, because that is, apart from anything, an important way for us to express our views about issues which are important to Australians," she said. 

Asked if he would consider expelling Israeli diplomats from the country or recalling the Israeli ambassador following the death, Mr Albanese refused to be drawn.
Loading...
He reiterated his government's position on the Israel-Gaza war had remained "consistent". It has been calling for a humanitarian ceasefire in the war for the past few months. 

The prime minister said he had given Ms Frankcom's brother his personal mobile number.

"I indicated to him I would be available at any time to provide whatever assistance either my office or the Australian government could provide to him and his family," he said. 

In a statement on Tuesday, Ms Frankcom's family said they were mourning the news of the death of their "brave and beloved Zomi [who] has been killed doing the work she loves delivering food to the people of Gaza".

"She was a kind, selfless and outstanding human being that has travelled the world helping others in their time of need," the statement said. 

"She will leave behind a legacy of compassion, bravery and love for all those in her orbit.

"We are still reeling from the shock and we humbly request privacy during this difficult time."

Opposition Leader Peter Dutton sent his thoughts, prayers and condolences to Ms Frankcom's family and friends. He said no-one wanted to see conflict in the Middle East but it was a "reality". 

"Of course, Hamas continues to hold hostages, 40 people, and they should be released immediately so that a ceasefire can be entered into," Mr Dutton said.

"The consequences that we see where innocent people are losing their lives in the Middle East at the moment is as a direct result of Hamas' attacks on the 7 of October."

Biden reflects on 'tragedy'

US President Joe Biden said he was "outraged and heartbroken" by the deaths of the humanitarian workers. 

"They were providing food to hungry civilians in the middle of a war. They were brave and selfless. Their deaths are a tragedy,"
 the president said.

"Even more tragically, this is not a standalone incident. This conflict has been one of the worst in recent memory in terms of how many aid workers have been killed.

"This is a major reason why distributing humanitarian aid in Gaza has been so difficult – because Israel has not done enough to protect aid workers trying to deliver desperately needed help to civilians."

More than 30,000 Palestinian citizens have so far been killed, according to health authorities in Gaza.

The president said deaths like those of the aid workers "simply should not happen", adding that Israel had also not done enough to protect civilians. 

He said he had been in touch with the aid workers' organisation.

World Central Kitchen names aid workers, friends reflect on Zomi

WCK said those killed were 25-year-old Palestinian Saifeddin Issam Ayad Abutaha, 35-year-old Damian Sobol from Poland, 33-year-old Jacob Flickinger from United States and Canada, as well as Ms Frankcom, 43, who was the team's leader. 

Also killed were members of the aid workers' security team, all from the UK: 57-year-old John Chapman; 33-year-old James "Jim" Henderson; and 47-year-old James Kirby.

The World Central Kitchen CEO Erin Gore said those killed were heroes.

"These seven beautiful souls were killed by the IDF in a strike as they were returning from a full day's mission. Their smiles, laughter, and voices are forever embedded in our memories," Ms Gore said.

World Central Kitchen aid workers who were killed in an Israeli air strike in Gaza. (Supplied: World Central Kitchen)

"We have countless memories of them giving their best selves to the world. We are reeling from our loss. The world's loss."

A NSW business owner who worked alongside Ms Frankcom during the Black Summer bushfires remembered her as a dedicated professional. 

During the bushfire response, WCK used Kelly Eastwood's Bermagui business to make almost 50,000 meals over seven weeks.

Ms Eastwood befriended Ms Frankcom, who she said was crucial in helping set up and run the disaster relief kitchen.

"When Zomi did come back and visit she came back for a dinner as we tried to reopen before COVID hit. We threw down the red carpet for her and she was welcomed with open arms," she said. 

"She was a big part of the community and I think a lot of people made friends with her. It's just devastating what's happened." 

Top Stories

Bladder cancer mistaken for UTI, perimenopause in women

Topic:Cancer

Hanson takes aim at Coalition in fiery pitch to conservative voters

Topic:Political Parties

Winner of imagery competition disqualified over AI use

Topic:Science and Technology

India's 'cockroach' movement founder detained as anger against Modi grows

Topic:World Politics

Wallabies humiliated by All Blacks 50-19 as Eden Park curse continues

Topic:Rugby Union

Popular now

Woman found dead in Carlton apartment identified as 21yo Jayda Allen Bonner

Topic:Crime

Bladder cancer mistaken for UTI, perimenopause in women

Topic:Cancer

Matt Renshaw scores drought-breaking ton to take Aussies past 300

LIVE

Related topics

Australia

Federal Government

Foreign Affairs

Government and Politics

War

Top Stories

Bladder cancer mistaken for UTI, perimenopause in women

Topic:Cancer

Hanson takes aim at Coalition in fiery pitch to conservative voters

Topic:Political Parties

Winner of imagery competition disqualified over AI use

Topic:Science and Technology

India's 'cockroach' movement founder detained as anger against Modi grows

Topic:World Politics

Wallabies humiliated by All Blacks 50-19 as Eden Park curse continues

Topic:Rugby Union

Just In

Russian attacks kill at least 12 in Ukraine after Trump-Putin diesel deal

Topic:War

Sat 10 Oct 2026 at 11:01pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 11:01pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 11:01pm

Woman found dead in Carlton apartment identified as 21yo Jayda Allen Bonner

Topic:Crime

Sat 10 Oct 2026 at 9:36pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 9:36pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 9:36pm

Opal Tower declared defect-free eight years after evacuations

Topic:Housing Construction Industry

Sat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:45pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:45pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:45pm

Zach Bates qualifies on pole for Bathurst 1000

Topic:Motor Sports

Sat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:17pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:17pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:17pm

More Just In

Back to top
