SOURCE URL: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2024-04-02/australian-aid-worker-dies-in-airstrike-in-central-gaza/103656546
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-10 23:36 AEDT (HTTP 200)
Saved as plain text extracted from the page HTML; wording unaltered. Header lines added by the verifier.
================================================================================
Australian World Central Kitchen aid worker Zomi Frankcom killed by apparent Israeli air strike in Gaza - ABC News

Skip to main content
Skip to news navigation, settings and search

Explore the ABC

Loading

ABC News
News Home

Australian World Central Kitchen aid worker Zomi Frankcom killed by apparent Israeli air strike in Gaza

ShareShare article

Australian World Central Kitchen aid worker Zomi Frankcom killed by apparent Israeli air strike in Gaza

By political reporter Georgia Roberts

Topic:Federal Government

Posted Tue 2 Apr 2024 at 10:10amTue 2 Apr 2024 at 10:10amTue 2 Apr 2024 at 10:10am, updated Wed 3 Apr 2024 at 12:11pmWed 3 Apr 2024 at 12:11pmWed 3 Apr 2024 at 12:11pm

Loading...

abc.net.au/news/australian-aid-worker-dies-in-airstrike-in-central-gaza/103656546

Link copied

ShareShare article

In short: The government has confirmed Australian woman Zomi Frankcom was among a number of aid workers killed in Gaza

The World Central Kitchen charity says two armoured cars marked with the group's logo were hit by an Israeli air strike.

What's next? Australia has condemned the strike and demanded Israel conduct a thorough and expeditious review

Australian aid worker Lalzawmi "Zomi" Frankcom has been killed in what Palestinian officials say was an Israeli air strike on central Gaza.

Charity organisation World Central Kitchen (WCK) said seven of its international aid workers were killed by the strike while helping to deliver food and other supplies to northern Gaza.

The charity said the team were travelling in a "deconflicted zone" in two armoured cars branded with the WCK logo despite coordinating movements with the Israeli Defense Forces.

WCK said the seven killed were from Australia, Poland, the United Kingdom, a dual United States-Canadian citizen and Palestine.

The organisation said it had ordered an immediate pause on its operations, as Israeli forces carry out an "in-depth examination to understand the circumstances of this tragic incident".

Zomi Frankcom's family have asked for privacy as they mourn their "brave and beloved" Zomi. (Image: supplied)

In a statement the Frankcom family asked for privacy as they mourn.

"We are deeply mourning the news that our brave and beloved Zomi has been killed doing the work she loves delivering food to the people of Gaza. She was a kind, selfless and outstanding human being that has travelled the world helping others in their time of need.

"She will leave behind a legacy of compassion, bravery and love for all those in her orbit.

"We are still reeling from the shock and we humbly request privacy during this difficult time."

In a statement confirming Ms Frankcom's death, Foreign Minister Penny Wong said Australia condemned the strike, and had made representations to the Netanyahu government seeking a thorough review.

"Her tireless work to improve the lives of others should never have cost Ms Frankcom her own," Senator Wong said.

PM calls for accountability from Israel

Prime Minister Anthony Albanese told 7.30 he had spoken to the family and they were understandably "devastated" by the news.

Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has requested a discussion with Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu. (ABC News: Matt Roberts)

"I have spoken to Zomi's brother," Mr Albanese said.

"This is just an extraordinary tragedy. It's one that they certainly weren't expecting. Zomi knew the risks, but when you're there providing aid and support and doing such extraordinarily good work, you don't expect that to happen."

He also offered his condolences to Ms Frankcom's family and friends, and said he had been in contact with the Israeli government and the Israeli ambassador seeking "accountability". 

"This is just completely unacceptable," he said.

The prime minister said Australia expected full accountability for the deaths of the aid workers.

"I have put in a request to Prime Minister Netanyahu to speak with him directly," he told 7.30.

Speaking earlier, Mr Albanese confirmed the government had also sought an explanation from Israel's ambassador.

"Aid workers and those doing humanitarian work, and indeed all innocent civilians, need to be provided with protection," Mr Albanese said.

"This news today is tragic. DFAT have also requested a call-in from the Israeli ambassador to Australia as well.

"We want full accountability for this. This is a tragedy that should never have occurred."

He added that Ms Frankcom had volunteered in her home country to help Australians during the bushfires, and had provided aid as a charity volunteer overseas. 

Ms Frankcom had worked for WCK for the past five years. (Supplied: Facebook)

"I didn't have the honour of knowing her, but the sort of values that are shown by someone going into a very dangerous place in order to assist mankind, their fellow humans, it says everything about the character of this young woman," the prime minister said. 

"This is a tragedy and my sincere condolences and that of the Australian government go to Zomi's family, to her friends and all who knew her."
Loading...
An image posted on the WCK Instagram account two weeks ago showed Ms Frankcom travelling to Gaza to supply aid.

Ms Frankcom had worked for WCK for the past five years.

She was based in Bangkok as the senior manager of its Asia Operations, according to her LinkedIn profile. Before that, she worked for Commonwealth Bank for more than eight years. 

A friend of Ms Frankcom's described her as "larger than life" and "relentless" in her efforts to help others.

Australian aid worker Zomi Frankcom was killed by an air strike in Gaza. (Supplied: LinkedIn)

In a video posted online, Palestinians showed the British, Australian and Polish passports of three of the killed workers at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in the central Gaza town of Deir al-Balah.

Mahmoud Thabet, a Palestinian Red Crescent paramedic who was on the team that brought the bodies to the hospital, told The Associated Press the workers were in a three-car convoy that was crossing out of northern Gaza when the missile hit. Thabet said he was told by WCK staff the team had been in the north coordinating the distribution of the newly arrived aid and were heading back to Rafah in the south.

The source of the fire could not be independently confirmed.

A video circulating online shows British, Polish and Australian passports that are said to belong to the killed workers. (Supplied: X)

The Israeli Defense Forces said it would review the incident.

"Following the reports regarding the World Central Kitchen personnel in Gaza today, the IDF (Israel Defense Forces) is conducting a thorough review at the highest levels to understand the circumstances of this tragic incident," the IDF said in a statement. 

"The IDF makes extensive efforts to enable the safe delivery of humanitarian aid, and has been working closely with WCK in their vital efforts to provide food and humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza."

'Humanitarian aid workers and civilians should never be a target'

In a statement, WCK chief executive Erin Gore said the team had just unloaded more than 100 tonnes of food aid brought to Gaza when they were killed.

Ms Gore claimed the aid workers had been targeted in the strike.

"This is not only an attack against WCK, this is an attack on humanitarian organisations showing up in the most dire of situations where food is being used as a weapon of war. This is unforgivable," Ms Gore said.

"I am heartbroken and appalled that we — World Central Kitchen and the world — lost beautiful lives today because of a targeted attack by the IDF. The love they had for feeding people, the determination they embodied to show that humanity rises above all, and the impact they made in countless lives will forever be remembered and cherished."

WCK is a non-profit, non-governmental organisation that provides meals worldwide in response to crises.

The charity had established a field kitchen in Rafah and created a network of community kitchens across Gaza.

Chef José Andrés, who formed World Central Kitchen in 2010 in response to the Haiti earthquake, took to social media to respond to the death of the aid workers.

Loading Twitter content

"Today [WCK] lost several of our sisters and brothers in an IDF air strike in Gaza," he said.

"I am heartbroken and grieving for their family and friends and our whole WCK family."

"The Israeli government needs to stop this indiscriminate killing. It needs to stop restricting humanitarian aid, stop killing civilians and aid workers, and stop using food as a weapon.

"No more innocent lives lost. Peace starts with our shared humanity. It needs to start now."

AP/ABC

Top Stories

Bladder cancer mistaken for UTI, perimenopause in women

Topic:Cancer

Hanson takes aim at Coalition in fiery pitch to conservative voters

Topic:Political Parties

Winner of imagery competition disqualified over AI use

Topic:Science and Technology

India's 'cockroach' movement founder detained as anger against Modi grows

Topic:World Politics

Wallabies humiliated by All Blacks 50-19 as Eden Park curse continues

Topic:Rugby Union

Popular now

Woman found dead in Carlton apartment identified as 21yo Jayda Allen Bonner

Topic:Crime

Bladder cancer mistaken for UTI, perimenopause in women

Topic:Cancer

Matt Renshaw scores drought-breaking ton to take Aussies past 300

LIVE

Related topics

Australia

Disaster Relief

Federal Government

Government and Politics

Israel

Occupied Palestinian Territories

Unrest, Conflict and War

War

Top Stories

Bladder cancer mistaken for UTI, perimenopause in women

Topic:Cancer

Hanson takes aim at Coalition in fiery pitch to conservative voters

Topic:Political Parties

Winner of imagery competition disqualified over AI use

Topic:Science and Technology

India's 'cockroach' movement founder detained as anger against Modi grows

Topic:World Politics

Wallabies humiliated by All Blacks 50-19 as Eden Park curse continues

Topic:Rugby Union

Just In

Russian attacks kill at least 12 in Ukraine after Trump-Putin diesel deal

Topic:War

Sat 10 Oct 2026 at 11:01pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 11:01pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 11:01pm

Woman found dead in Carlton apartment identified as 21yo Jayda Allen Bonner

Topic:Crime

Sat 10 Oct 2026 at 9:36pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 9:36pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 9:36pm

Opal Tower declared defect-free eight years after evacuations

Topic:Housing Construction Industry

Sat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:45pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:45pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:45pm

Zach Bates qualifies on pole for Bathurst 1000

Topic:Motor Sports

Sat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:17pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:17pmSat 10 Oct 2026 at 7:17pm

More Just In

Back to top
